# Observables

In JavaScript, observables are objects that allow you to subscribe to events and receive notifications whenever those events occur. They are a part of the Reactive Programming paradigm and are commonly used in modern front-end frameworks like Angular and React.

Observables are similar to promises in that they both represent a value that may be available at some point in the future. However, observables are more powerful than promises because they can emit multiple values over time, whereas promises only emit a single value.

To use observables in JavaScript, you need to first create an observable object using a library like RxJS. Here's an example of how to create an observable that emits a sequence of numbers:

```jsx

import { Observable } from 'rxjs';

const observable = new Observable((subscriber) => {
  subscriber.next(1);
  subscriber.next(2);
  subscriber.next(3);
  subscriber.complete();
});

```

In this example, we're creating an observable that emits the numbers 1, 2, and 3 in sequence, and then completes. To subscribe to this observable and receive its values, we can use the **`subscribe`** method:

```jsx

observable.subscribe({
  next: (value) => console.log(value),
  complete: () => console.log('Observable completed')
});

```

In this code, we're subscribing to the observable and passing an object with two methods: **`next`** and **`complete`**. The **`next`** method is called each time the observable emits a value, and the **`complete`** method is called when the observable has completed emitting values.

Observables are a powerful tool for handling asynchronous events in JavaScript, and they can be used in a variety of scenarios, including network requests, user input, and more.

[An intro to Observables and how they are different from promises](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/what-are-observables-how-they-are-different-from-promises/)